>> Jason Pamental: I'm Jason Pamental.
We were talking a little bit right
before we got started about why
I didn't know anything about
a raccoon scaling a building.
And part of that is because I get
a little bit obsessed with this stuff.
And I'll tell you a little bit
more about that in a second.
Just a quick look ahead.
These are as close as possible to kind of
the things that we're gonna talk about and
roughly the time that
we're gonna spend on them.
I am gonna be covering some of the similar
concepts that I did in the first edition
of this workshop because a lot of
that stuff is still very relevant.
It's the application of it and some of the
new technologies that we're gonna get into
that will help us take it a lot further.
But we're gonna go over
some basics of typography.
So for the people who are watching, or are
in the room that have never studied type,
I'm gonna try and give you some
basics about what to look for.
How to look at type,
how to see some of the differences and
what kinda choices you might make
when you're working with it.
I'm gonna talk a little about what I
mean when I say responsive typography.
I actually wrote a book about it.
About the time that I gave this
workshop the last time it was just out.
And there's a new wrinkle to that.
It's not just responsive typography,
we also have responsive type,
which is really pretty fascinating stuff
and I'm really super excited about it.
So I'm looking forward
to showing that to you.
We'll have a break for
lunch and then we're gonna get
into implementing web fonts.
And we're gonna talk about how to do
that for the best performance and
best user experience and different things
and techniques that you can try there.
And also talk a little bit
about what the W3C and
a couple other companies are working on,
because there's some interesting
developments that are just
starting to become a thing.
And then we're gonna talk a little bit
more about some different aspects of
typography and
how we can use these technologies to
improve overall reading experience.
Finessing things with some
of the finer details, and
then look at some newer ideas in
editorial design where we can look at
how we could take web design a little
further than what you might typically see.
And use some of this new technology
to create a much more Interesting and
dynamic impact on the web.
And have it all, of course, work across
any device that you could think of.
And then we're going to try to finish up
with enough time so that we can go and
look at some real world examples.
And if anybody has a particular
project that they're working on, or
they're curious about,
we can pull a couple things up, and
we'll just kind of take that as it goes.
>> Jason Pamental: Questions are welcome
at any point during the day.
This will go back and
forth between looking at some slides and
looking at some code and
working through stuff.
You have the exact same repository
that I'm gonna be working with here.
It's up on GitHub.
You are welcome to do whatever
you wanna do with that.
And code along if you want to, or
just know that you have all the answers
there and you can always come back to it.
It's totally up to you.
>> Jason Pamental: And then by the time
we're really exhausted, by around five,
then we'll just go away.
>> Jason Pamental: As I mentioned,
my name's Jason.
I tend to refer to myself
as a web typographer.
And I do that at type conferences,
in order to differentiate myself from
people that I feel totally outclassed by,
because they know a lot more
about traditional type than I do.
But I know a lot more about how to
implement it well on the web, and
what's why I think there's
an important distinction.
So while I'm many things,
I'm a teacher, an author, a writer,
a developer, a designer, a strategist.
I really kinda like this label because I
think it actually encapsulates an awful
lot of that.
>> Jason Pamental: The best thing I can
say about a four year old web book is that
at least it's still somewhat or
maybe mostly relevant.
So I'm happy about that, but
it could certainly use an update.
Although given the state of things right
now, between now and the end of the year,
it's gonna be so different yet
again that it's probably not
worth starting on that just yet.
I mentioned that I kind of missed out
on a lot of pop culture stuff because I
tend to go around and speak about
these sorts of things quite a lot.
And so last week I was out at Adobe at
San Francisco giving a talk at their
internal conference about variable fonts.
And how that might fit
into teaching typography
to people who really don't know anything
about it, whether it's online or
in print, because it can remove some
of the choices that you have to make.
If anybody's ever installed a typeface
before, it's a whole bunch of files.
Every different width, weight,
italic, they're all separate files.
And all have to be imported, managed,
and if you're missing one or two,
then the job doesn't go right.
And I think that's where variable
fonts can actually start to
make a difference there.
So it was really interesting getting
a chance to see where Adobe's
going with that.
I've talked to a lot of
other teams at GoDaddy,
at Audible, Conde Nast, a few other places
about what they're doing with type and
how this might fit into their needs.
Whether it's about branding or if it's
about just increasing overall performance
or creating greater flexibility for
the content management process.
That's the kinda thing I
spend a lot of time doing.
And I was interested enough
in trying to focus on that,
that about two weeks ago I quit the agency
job that I had running a development
team at a Drupal shop to focus
on this stuff full time.
So you have my full attention.
>> Jason Pamental: To set
things off on the right note,
that's Tristan on the left and
Tilly on the right.
I've had Tristan since he was a puppy.
He's about to turn ten, and Tilly,
his cousin, is just turning eight.
And we've had her for
about a year and a half.
I will definitely be leaning on them to
help me explain some type terms as we go,
but that's also our calming touchpoint.
We'll probably see them coming back into
the scene a few times here and there.